lib-app and lib-schema docs #413 (#414)
enonic/doc-xp: docs/api/lib-app.adoc

= Application library
:toc: right
:imagesdir: ../images

Functions to fetch and manipulate applications.

== Usage

Add the following into your `build.gradle` file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
  include "com.enonic.xp:lib-app:${xpVersion}"
}
----

In your JavaScript controller, add a require statement:

```js
var appLib = require('/lib/xp/app');
```

You are now free to use the library functionality.

== Functions

=== get

> Returns installed application. If both local and virtual apps are installed with specified key, then local will be in the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns an installed application. If a local and a virtual app are both installed with the specified key, then the local one will take precedence and will be returned in the result.
```

[.lead]
Parameters

[%header,cols="1%,1%,97%a"]
[frame="none"]
[grid="none"]
|===
| Name   | Type   | Description
| params | object | JSON with parameters

[%header,cols="1%,1%,97%a"]
[frame="topbot"]
[grid="none"]
[caption=""]
.Properties
!===
! Name  ! Type   !  Description
! key  ! string !  Application key
!===

|===

[.lead]
Returns

> *object* : (<<#Application,`Application`>>) Detail information for the application. Or null if the application could not be found.

Reviewer: Properties object of an installed application with the specified key, or `null` if the application could not be found.

[.lead]
Example

.Obtains details for an application:
```js
var application = appLib.get('my-app-key');

if (application) {
  log.info('Application name = %s', application.displayName);
} else {
  log.info('Application not found');
}
```
.Return value:
```js
var expected = {
    'key': 'my-app',
    'displayName': 'app display name',
    'vendorName': 'vendor name',
    'vendorUrl': 'https://vendor.url',
    'url': 'https://myapp.url',
    'version': '1.0.0',
    'systemVersion': '4.2.3-SNAPSHOT',
    'minSystemVersion': '2.0.0',
    'maxSystemVersion': '3.0.0',
    'modifiedTime': '2020-09-25T10:00:00Z',
    'started': true,
    'system': false
};
```

=== list

> Fetches all installed applications. If both local and virtual apps are installed with the same key, then local will be in the result.

Reviewer: Fetches all installed applications. If a local and a virtual app are both installed with the same key, then the local one will take precedence and will be returned in the result.

[.lead]
Returns

*object[]* : (<<#Application,`Application[]`>>) Detail information for the applications. Or an empty list if there are no installed applications.

[.lead]
Example

.Fetching all applications:
```js
var apps = appLib.list();
```
.Return value:
```js
var expected = [
    {
        'key': 'app1',
        'displayName': 'app display name',
        'vendorName': 'vendor name',
        'vendorUrl': 'https://vendor.url',
        'url': 'https://myapp.url',
        'version': '1.0.0',
        'systemVersion': '1.21.3',
        'minSystemVersion': '2.0.0',
        'maxSystemVersion': '3.0.0',
        'modifiedTime': '2020-09-25T10:00:00Z',
        'started': true,
        'system': false
    },
    {
        'key': 'app2',
        'displayName': 'app display name 2',
        'vendorName': 'vendor name 2',
        'vendorUrl': 'https://vendor2.url',
        'url': 'https://myapp2.url',
        'version': '4.1.2',
        'systemVersion': '1.2.33-SNAPSHOT',
        'minSystemVersion': '5.3.11',
        'maxSystemVersion': '3.0.6',
        'modifiedTime': '2021-09-25T10:00:00Z',
        'started': false,
        'system': true
    }
];
```

=== getDescriptor

> Returns the descriptor of the installed application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns descriptor of an installed application.
```

[.lead]
Parameters

[%header,cols="1%,1%,97%a"]
[frame="none"]
[grid="none"]
|===
| Name   | Type   | Description
| params | object | JSON with parameters

[%header,cols="1%,1%,97%a"]
[frame="topbot"]
[grid="none"]
[caption=""]
.Properties
!===
! Name  ! Type   !  Description
! key   ! string  !  Application key
!===
|===

[.lead]
Returns

*object* : (<<#ApplicationDescriptor,`ApplicationDescriptor`>>) Application descriptor.

[.lead]
Example

.Fetches application descriptor:
```js
var descriptor = appLib.getDescriptor('my-app-key');
```

.Return value:
```js
var expected = {
    'key': 'my-app',
    'description': 'my app description',
    'icon': {
        'data': {},
        'mimeType': 'image/png',
        'modifiedTime': '2021-12-03T10:15:30Z'
    }
};
```

=== createVirtualApplication

> Creates a virtual application with the specified key together with schema repositories nodes inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a virtual application with the specified key together with schema repositories nodes inside of it.
```

[.lead]
Parameters

[%header,cols="1%,1%,98%a"]
[frame="none"]
[grid="none"]
|===
| Name   | Type   | Description
| params | object | JSON with params

[%header,cols="1%,1%,97%a", options="header"]
[frame="topbot"]
[grid="none"]
[caption=""]
.Properties
!===
! Name   ! Type   ! Description
! key    ! string ! Application key
!===

|===

[.lead]
Returns

> *object* : (<<#Application,`Application`>>) Information for the created application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*object* : (<<#Application,`Application`>>) Properties object of the created application.
```

[.lead]
Example

.removes an app with `my-app-key` key:
```js
var app = appLib.createVirtualApplication({
    'key':'my-app-key',
    'displayName':'my-app-key',
    'version':'0.0.0',
    'systemVersion':'7.11.0',
    'minSystemVersion':'7.11.0',
    'maxSystemVersion':'7.11.0',
    'modifiedTime':'2022-08-11T11:34:47.949533Z',
    'started':true,
    'system':false
});
```

=== deleteVirtualApplication

Removes a virtual application with the specified key.

[.lead]
Parameters

[%header,cols="1%,1%,98%a"]
[frame="none"]
[grid="none"]
|===
| Name   | Type   | Description
| params | object | JSON with params

[%header,cols="1%,1%,97%a", options="header"]
[frame="topbot"]
[grid="none"]
[caption=""]
.Properties
!===
! Name   ! Type   ! Description
! key    ! string ! Application key
!===

|===

[.lead]
Returns

> *boolean* : `true` if succeed and `false` otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*boolean* : `true` if the operation succeeded, otherwise `false`.
```

[.lead]
Example

.removes an app with `my-app-key` key:
```js
var result = appLib.deleteVirtualApplication({
    'key':'my-app-key'
});
```

=== hasVirtual

> Checks if there is virtual application with the specified key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Checks if there is a virtual application with the specified key.
```

[.lead]
Parameters

[%header,cols="1%,1%,98%a"]
[frame="none"]
[grid="none"]
|===
| Name   | Type   | Description
| params | object | JSON with params

[%header,cols="1%,1%,97%a", options="header"]
[frame="topbot"]
[grid="none"]
[caption=""]
.Properties
!===
! Name   ! Type   ! Description
! key    ! string ! Application key
!===

|===

[.lead]
Returns

> *boolean* : `true` if the virtual application exists and `false` otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*boolean* : `true` if a virtual application with the specified key exists, otherwise `false`.
```

[.lead]
Example

.checks if there is a virtual app with `my-app-key` key:
```js
var result = appLib.hasVirtual({
    'key':'my-app-key'
});
```

=== hasReal

> Checks if there is local installed application with the specified key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checks if there is a local installed application with the specified key.
```

[.lead]
Parameters

[%header,cols="1%,1%,98%a"]
[frame="none"]
[grid="none"]
|===
| Name   | Type   | Description
| params | object | JSON with params

[%header,cols="1%,1%,97%a", options="header"]
[frame="topbot"]
[grid="none"]
[caption=""]
.Properties
!===
! Name   ! Type   ! Description
! key    ! string ! Application key
!===

|===

[.lead]
Returns

> *boolean* : `true` if the real application exists and `false` otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*boolean* : `true` if the local application exists, otherwise `false`.
```
